https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-29002--release note for 2.14.2 (#8670)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: release_notes/acm_fixed_issues.adoc

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25222[ACM-25222] 

* Fixes Image-Based Installation failures that were caused by the default `ImageClusterInstall` template not including the `AdditionalNTPSources` field from the `ClusterInstance` specification. Without the field, clusters used the NTP servers from the seed image instead of the production NTP servers, causing installation to fail. The template now correctly renders user-specified NTP sources into the `ImageClusterInstall` manifest.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-26057[ACM-26057] 

* Fixes a problem with disabling the `multicluster-observability-addon` where the custom resource definition status failed to recover, resulting in a persistent `missing` status for the resource. After the fix, the resource correctly transitions when the add-on is disabled or re-enabled.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-26168[ACM-26168] 

> * Adds a delay mechanism to the platform-type check for the observability component, which determined incorrectly, too early in the deployment process, that an {ocp-short} managed cluster was _not_ an {ocp-short} cluster. The system now ensures that the necessary cluster information is available before determining if the cluster is an {ocp-short} environment, resulting in a more reliable and stable deployment of observability services.

Reviewer: Looks good @swopebrandi1

*Important:* Cluster lifecycle components and features are within the {mce-short}, which is a software operator that enhances cluster fleet management. Release notes for {mce-short}-specific features are found in at link:../clusters/release_notes/mce_release_notes.adoc#mce-release-notes[Release notes for Cluster lifecycle with {mce-short}].

== Errata 2.14.2

* Delivers updates to one or more product container images.

* Addresses an issue that might cause the console to become unavailable because of a `CrashLoopBackOff` condition by improving performance and increasing probe timeouts on the `console-mce-console` deployment.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25039[ACM-25039] 

>   * Fixes the `ClusterInstance` admission webhook validation for scale-in operations on multi-node clusters, which incorrectly rejected node removal requests with a `detected unauthorized changes in immutable fields.` message. The webhook matched nodes by array position rather than by identity, so removing a node caused all subsequent nodes to appear modified. The webhook now correctly identifies nodes during scale-in, allowing node removal without false immutable-field violations.

Reviewer 2: The entry has an extra indentation (`  *` instead of  `*`), which renders it as a nested sub-item under ACM-25039. Should it not be a top-level bullet like the other entries?

Author: yes, that is a typo, thanks!

>   * Fixes the `ClusterInstance` admission webhook validation for scale-in operations on multi-node clusters, which incorrectly rejected node removal requests with a `detected unauthorized changes in immutable fields.` message. The webhook matched nodes by array position rather than by identity, so removing a node caused all subsequent nodes to appear modified. The webhook now correctly identifies nodes during scale-in, allowing node removal without false immutable-field violations.

Author: ```suggestion
* Fixes the `ClusterInstance` admission webhook validation for scale-in operations on multi-node clusters, which incorrectly rejected node removal requests with a `detected unauthorized changes in immutable fields.` message. The webhook matched nodes by array position rather than by identity, so removing a node caused all subsequent nodes to appear modified. The webhook now correctly identifies nodes during scale-in, allowing node removal without false immutable-field violations.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25222[ACM-25222] 

* Fixes Image-Based Installation failures that were caused by the default `ImageClusterInstall` template not including the `AdditionalNTPSources` field from the `ClusterInstance` specification. Without the field, clusters used the NTP servers from the seed image instead of the production NTP servers, causing installation to fail. The template now correctly renders user-specified NTP sources into the `ImageClusterInstall` manifest.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-26057[ACM-26057] 

> * Fixes a problem with disabling the `MulticlusterObservabilityAdd-on` where the Custom Resource Definition status failed to recover, resulting in a persistent `missing` status for the resource. After the fix, the resource correctly transitions when the add-on is disabled or re-enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fixes a problem with disabling the `multicluster-observability-addon` where the custom resource definition status failed to recover, resulting in a persistent `missing` status for the resource. After the fix, the resource correctly transitions when the add-on is disabled or re-enabled.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-26168[ACM-26168] 

> * Adds a delay to the platform-type check for observability component, which attempted to determine if a managed cluster was a {ocp-short} cluster too early in the deployment process. The system now ensures that the necessary cluster information is available before determining if the cluster is an {ocp-short} environment, resulting in a more reliable and stable deployment of observability services.

Author: ```suggestion
* Adds a delay mechanism to the platform-type check for the observability component, which determined incorrectly, too early in the deployment process, that an {ocp-short} managed cluster was _not_ an {ocp-short} cluster. The system now ensures that the necessary cluster information is available before determining if the cluster is an {ocp-short} environment, resulting in a more reliable and stable deployment of observability services.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-27834[ACM-27834] 

> //Subbarao - no summary--ai generated--please review

Author: @subbarao-meduri please review line 28?

Reviewer: @swopebe The description looks good. The main issue here is that we were incorrectly identifying OCP clusters as non-OCP clusters, and deploying the observability component stack on OCP managed clusters. The `delay` mechanism ensures that OCP clusters are correctly identified. I think we want to make this explicit.

  * Fixes a problem where creating a `ClusterInstance` for an imported or restored cluster incorrectly displayed the `Provisioning in progress` status, even though the cluster was already successfully installed. The `ClusterInstance` now correctly reports a completed provisioning state for these clusters. 
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-29861[ACM-29861] 

> 

Author: @sakhoury please see the changes that were merged.

*Important:* Cluster lifecycle components and features are within the {mce-short}, which is a software operator that enhances cluster fleet management. Release notes for {mce-short}-specific features are found in at link:../clusters/release_notes/mce_release_notes.adoc#mce-release-notes[Release notes for Cluster lifecycle with {mce-short}].

== Errata 2.14.2

* Delivers updates to one or more product container images.

* Addresses an issue that might cause the console to become unavailable because of a `CrashLoopBackOff` condition by improving performance and increasing probe timeouts on the `console-mce-console` deployment.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25039[ACM-25039] 

> * Updates the validation logic for the `ClusterInstance` admission webhook to correctly handle scale-in requests, which failed with an error from the admission webhook: `clusterinstances.siteconfig.open-cluster-management.io.` The webhook denied the request because of changes in fields that were incorrectly marked as `immutable`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Fixes the `ClusterInstance` admission webhook validation for scale-in operations on multi-node clusters, which incorrectly rejected node removal requests with a `detected unauthorized changes in immutable fields.` message. The webhook matched nodes by array position rather than by identity, so removing a node caused all subsequent nodes to appear modified. The webhook now correctly identifies nodes during scale-in, allowing node removal without false immutable-field violations.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25222[ACM-25222] 
//Sharat -- no summary--generated from ai

> * Fixes the installation logic for Image-Based Installation (IBI), which failed because the Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers that were configured in the seed image were not updating during the installation process, to ensure that NTP server configurations are properly updated during the Image-Based Installation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes Image-Based Installation failures that were caused by the default `ImageClusterInstall` template not including the `AdditionalNTPSources` field from the `ClusterInstance` specification. Without the field, clusters used the NTP servers from the seed image instead of the production NTP servers, causing installation to fail. The template now correctly renders user-specified NTP sources into the `ImageClusterInstall` manifest.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-26057[ACM-26057] 
//Sharat -- no summary

> * Fixes a problem with disabling the `MulticlusterObservabilityAdd-on` where the Custom Resource Definition status failed to recover, resulting in a persistent "missing" status for the resource. After the fix, the resource correctly transitions when the add-on is disabled or re-enabled.

Author: ```suggestion
* Fixes a problem with disabling the `MulticlusterObservabilityAdd-on` where the Custom Resource Definition status failed to recover, resulting in a persistent `missing` status for the resource. After the fix, the resource correctly transitions when the add-on is disabled or re-enabled.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-26168[ACM-26168] 

* Adds a delay the platform-type check for observability component, which attempted to determine if a managed cluster was a {ocp-short} cluster too early in the deployment process. The system now ensures that the necessary cluster information is available before determining if the cluster is an {ocp-short} environment, resulting in a more reliable and stable deployment of observability services.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-27834[ACM-27834] 
//Subbarao - no summary--ai generated

> * Fixes a problem where clusters that were already successfully provisioned reported the `ClusterInstance` status incorrectly as `Provisioning in progress`. Clusters now detect when a provisioning operation is complete and update the status, ensuring the `Provisioning in progress` message is cleared.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Fixes a problem where creating a `ClusterInstance` for an imported or restored cluster incorrectly displayed the `Provisioning in progress` status, even though the cluster was already successfully installed. The `ClusterInstance` now correctly reports a completed provisioning state for these clusters. 
```

*Important:* Cluster lifecycle components and features are within the {mce-short}, which is a software operator that enhances cluster fleet management. Release notes for {mce-short}-specific features are found in at link:../clusters/release_notes/mce_release_notes.adoc#mce-release-notes[Release notes for Cluster lifecycle with {mce-short}].

== Errata 2.14.2

* Delivers updates to one or more product container images.

* Addresses an issue that might cause the console to become unavailable because of a `CrashLoopBackOff` condition by improving performance and increasing probe timeouts on the `console-mce-console` deployment.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25039[ACM-25039] 

* Updates the validation logic for the `ClusterInstance` admission webhook to correctly handle scale-in requests, which failed with an error from the admission webhook: `clusterinstances.siteconfig.open-cluster-management.io.` The webhook denied the request because of changes in fields that were incorrectly marked as `immutable`.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25222[ACM-25222] 

> //Sharat -- no summary

Author: ```suggestion
//Sharat -- no summary--generated from ai
```

*Important:* Cluster lifecycle components and features are within the {mce-short}, which is a software operator that enhances cluster fleet management. Release notes for {mce-short}-specific features are found in at link:../clusters/release_notes/mce_release_notes.adoc#mce-release-notes[Release notes for Cluster lifecycle with {mce-short}].

== Errata 2.14.2

* Delivers updates to one or more product container images.

* Improves performance for the `console-mce` pod and ensure the pod handles requests more efficiently, preventing `CrashLoopBackOff` probe timeouts and stabilizing the pod to prevent unexpected restarts.

> link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25039[ACM-25039] 

Author: this is also in the MCE draft.

Reviewer 4: This fix was also in the 2.13.z stream, where we summarized as:

> Addresses an issue that might cause the console to become unavailable because of a `CrashLoopBackOff` condition by improving performance and increasing probe timeouts on the `console-mce-console` deployment.

See https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/pull/8559/changes#diff-74d24aae966e80840c7b43b485d00abe2fbc00b0ba288d0e995f14225a180d8fR17

Author: @KevinFCormier thanks... since this comes up in the 2.14.2 query and advisory, I end up adding it to the release note without looking back at all the other versions we push.

Author: added the same content, no need for review.

> //Kevin -- no summary

Author: ```suggestion
//Kevin -- no summary, mostly ai generated
```

* Updates the validation logic for the `ClusterInstance` admission webhook to correctly handle scale-in requests, which failed with an error from the admission webhook: `clusterinstances.siteconfig.open-cluster-management.io.` The webhook denied the request because of changes in fields that were incorrectly marked as `immutable`.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25222[ACM-25222] 
//Sharat -- no summary

* Fixes the installation logic for Image-Based Installation (IBI), which failed because the Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers that were configured in the seed image were not updating during the installation process, to ensure that NTP server configurations are properly updated during the Image-Based Installation process.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-26057[ACM-26057] 
//Sharat -- no summary

> * Fixes a problem with disabling the `MulticlusterObservabilityAdd-on` where the Custom Resource Definition status failed to recover, resulting in a persistent "missing" status for the resource. After the fix, the resource correctly transitions when the add-on is disabled or re-enabled.

Reviewer 5: 👍

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-26168[ACM-26168] 
//Jacob or Thibault -- no summary

> * Fixes a problem that occurred when the `observability=disabled` label was applied to disable the component. The resource failed to remove all observability add-on resources that were associated. Some components and configurations remained on the managed cluster, leading to orphaned resources and potential conflicts if observability was later re-enabled. Applying the `observability=disabled` label now initiates a comprehensive removal process.

Reviewer 5: Remove, ticket in wrong state as far as I understand. We didn't ship this for 2.14 (but also no need to call it out even if we did)

Author: @jacobbaungard this went out in the advisory.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-27633[ACM-27633] 
//Daniel--no summary

* Adds a delay the platform-type check for observability component, which attempted to determine if a managed cluster was a {ocp-short} cluster too early in the deployment process. The system now ensures that the necessary cluster information is available before determining if the cluster is an {ocp-short} environment, resulting in a more reliable and stable deployment of observability services.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-27834[ACM-27834] 

> //Subbarao

Author: ```suggestion
//Subbarao - no summary
```
